Introduction
We’ve talked about the client-side and the server-side but how do we keep ahold of all our user’s data? Who remembers that your login password is CatLover1985 so you can sign into the website? 
The bottom layer of any web application is the database and it handles all the remembering for you (we’ll cover caching much later). 
It can be relatively simple, like an Excel spreadsheet, or incredibly complex and split into many giant pieces, like Facebook’s.
Databases are kind of hidden in the back of the web application, so people approach them with a sense of suspicion and awe. 
However, do not fret or feel intimidated.
As you dive deeper into the subject, your databases and you are going to become very good friends (or at least frenemies).
Rest assured, by the end of this curriculum, you’re going to understand what’s going on with your databases and be able to interact with them like a pro (and probably better than some people you’ll work with). 
This lesson is a teaser for that.
Compared to a normal programming language like you’ve already learned, SQL (Structured Query Language), which is used to query databases, has a very simple syntax… with only a small handful of verbs to learn. 
What trips people up is that you need to be able to visualize in your head what it’s going to be doing.
We’ll spend a fair bit of time on SQL and databases because they’re so fundamental, but for now we’ll just cover enough to get you familiar with what’s going on in there.
What a database is.
What relational databases are.
In what way relational databases are different from XML.
What SQL is.
What SQL is used for.
How to get all the records from a table in SQL.
How to insert a record in SQL.
The importance of data
As human beings, we are limited in our capacity to remember things.
Having tools that allow immediate access and analysis of data enables us to make better decisions.
Today, we have systems that allow a doctor to review the patient's medical record before prescribing a new drug. 
A bioinformatic scientist can query genome data to find the genetic basis of disease. 
A baseball scout looking at player statistics can assess the value of a player.
All these decisions can be successfully arrived at by collecting data, organizing it and then studying it to find patterns and meaning. 
This data has to be stored in a way that lends itself to studying. In other words, we need to structure it.
